After suffering from multiple anxiety attacks and suicidal thoughts along with being overwhelmed by academics, I finally took a leave of absence four weeks until the Spring 2018 semester was over. Enough was enough. I packed up my belongings and bid my departure to my friends in the Holland International Living Center (HILC), especially my roommate, along with all the friends that I made in Cornell. While I admit that I made an impulsive decision to step away from Cornell for a while, I reflect on the positive aspects of taking a leave of absence.

Even though I held events to relieve stress from academics and educated the student body on promoting the overall well-being of Cornell students, I sacrificed my own mental health and emotional well being. WHen I went home in Connecticut, I made sure to find a therapist and psychiatrist that met my needs: anxiety, depression, and autism. After calling dozens of therapists and psychiatrists around my area, I finally found two reliable people that I can confide to about my problems, whether they are academic or personal. Instead of dreading treatment, I actually looked forward to it and openly talk about my everyday life with them.

For self-care, I took up a hobby, reading books.

While I was stuck at home almost all summer, I decided to go to the local libraries and borrowed at least ten books on a weekly basis. For a while, I took up on a challenge to read one book a day. It became exhilarating to glue my eyes into several books in a week. One day, I thought to myself, "Can I finish War and Peace, a 1000+ page novel, in one day?" For fourteen hours, I focused on reading about the Napoleonic Wars, fascinated by the translator's interpretation of the original Russian novel with its descriptive language and historical facts. However, it was also one of the most exhausting reads that I ever embarked on; I physically needed a much needed break after that. After that reading challenge, I decided to read at least two books a day for the remainder of the summer before classes started.

So far, taking a leave of absence was one of the hardest decisions that I ever made in my life; however, it's also one of the best decisions that I ever made.

However, adjusting back to life as a Cornell student has been challenging. Taking a leave of absence was disorienting. I lost most of my friends during that time and had trouble making new friends. As an autistic person, it is arduous for me to maintain friendships. Socially interacting with my peers do not come easily since I do not easily pick up subtle and nonverbal social cues from conversations and do not know when to contribute to a group conversation. SO far, I have been working to improve my social life by actively meeting new people through my clubs, Cornell Minds Matter (CMM) and Women in Computing at Cornell (WICC). For example, I joined a mentorship circle for WICC in which I talk to upperclassmen about navigating my journey in tech at Cornell by discussing classes that I potentially want to take as well as how to obtain a CS internship. In addition, I am involved in CMM as a member of the policy team and member of the planning committee for the Ivy League Mental Health Conference. It is a work in progress, but I am adjusting back to Cornell slowly but surely. I am using my resources; I am talking to my advisors and I am connecting with friends, both old and new.

Hana Gabrielle Bidon is an Information Science, Systems, and Technology major in the College of Engineering, class of 2021.
