Asians generally don't think that mental health exists-you're either stupid or you're lazy and there's not really anything else you can explain. I didn't realize what was really going on with me until probably about sophomore year of high school because I ended up in the hospital for suicidal ideation. When I was in the hospital-usually it's a 3 day holding period-instead of having me there for 3 days, I left the same night because my parents came and told me that I should lie to get out of it so I could go to school the next day. So I lied to the therapist and said I did it for the attention and then just went to school the next day.

That's when I realized, you know what? Mental health is important and we need to talk about it. I never tried talking about it to my parents because I knew they didn't believe in it. For my project for Girl Scouts my junior and senior year, I focused on mental health awareness. I worked on a lot of different things within my community. Because my congressional district is quite Asian and my school was about 69% Asian, it was a unique place for us to talk about it. This was before mental health was really talked about...ever. I didn't realize it at the time, but I was one of the first, especially in my community, to talk about it.

But I thought that was it. I thought I would go to college and everything was going to be fine and I was going to be happy and I thought that my parents and the pressures and all the weird drama was going to end. The first night I got here, I remember being in my bed thinking, "Oh, new beginning, it's going to be good." I quickly realized that wasn't really the case. For a long time, I thought that not figuring things out was on me and not on any mental health issues. For all of freshman year, I didn't really do anything about it-I only went to therapy once. It was a lady who was like, "Have you ever tried talking to your parents?" I'm like, "Uh yeah, thank you, yes."

I fell into mental health work in college because I tried to go to CAPS, I tried to do all these things, and it was really hard for me to navigate the system. When I saw that there were a bunch of things going on with mental health here on campus, I thought, "Ahh ok, I want to get involved somehow," because it was such a shitty experience for me to try to navigate the system on my own. It kind of spiraled from here.

It's weird, because you do all this mental health work on campus. Everyone comes to you for help now. They always ask, "Please help me through the system," and they're always talking to you, sharing their experiences. I like being that person that people can come to for help, but at the same time, it's exhausting. The whole time I was working on mental health awareness on campus, I wasn't working on my own mental health. My therapist went on medical leave in the middle of last semester, and I didn't seek other help. I should have.

I lost a friend to suicide that semester, right before Mental Health Awareness Week, so I never really processed it.

He was from my area, too-we'd been friends since middle school. My parents knew him, everyone in our community knew him. He went to Columbia. He very much followed a similar path: you do middle school debate, you went to high school and did pretty well, you went to an Ivy League, you played instruments, you were probably pre-med at one point. I had seen him this past summer when I was in New York City. We went to a concert together. It was nice to be with someone who understood that background.

For my parents, at least, to see that someone from that background, that something that drastic can happen...I keep telling them, and they've been slowly getting better at understanding, but they don't really see how drastic it can be until someone who they knew-whose parents they knew-who basically followed the same path, ended up committing suicide. It was a strange time. My parents are trying to get better at acknowledging mental health, and I think our community as well. 

I didn't take care of myself at all during that time. I should have. At the end of last semester I developed an eating disorder. Recently, I tried to go for help for my eating disorder and thought, "This is too much, I don't have the time, I'm gonna figure it out." On the other hand, today I cooked for myself! But it's so hard to find to find that balance and I'm still trying to figure it out. It's nonstop. The fight is nonstop. Everytime something is improving, you go onto the next thing. It's never-ending and your battle with yourself is never-ending.

It has kind of come full circle for me to be doing mental health work again. I became involved on campus. I did mental health work again. I did mental health research last summer. Everything came together for me to be this person who is a mental health advocate. Being able to balance being an advocate and being there for other people, but also having to take care of yourself...Just yesterday I didn't get out of bed until 4 PM because I just had one of those days. It's a weird place for me, where I want to do as much work on mental health as possible, but I feel incredibly burnt out.

There are so many days where I think, "Why can't someone else fight tthis for me? Why can't someone else stand up for me and do all this work?" But at the end of the day, it's always worth it to see these changes happening that are hopefully good. I'm still figuring it out. But I'm doing...better.

I'm doing better in the sense that I talk about my mental health a lot more. When I was in high school, after I was in the hospital, I came back to school the next day. I don't think people knew really, and my parents even refused to tell our relatives. We didn't talk about it at all. Writing college applications, my parents said, "Don't talk about it. People aren't going to like you if you talk about this."

In that sense, I'm a lot better. I'm very open about what's going on, partially because I think the more people talk about it the more people are opening up to other people and say, "Hey, I'm actually really struggling." Or even just realizing they have a problem - where it's not just that you're lazy, something is actually happening. For example, before my eating disorder really manifested in itself the way that it did, I thought everybody had body image issues. Literally three months ago someone told me, "No, Joanna, not everyone has body image issues." And I was like, "...really? ...you're lying, but okay." I think talking about mental health really normalizes it, and I'm not as ashamed about having these mental health problems.

A lot of the time when I'm having a really hard day and I can't make it to class or meetings I still find myself making excuses like, "Hey family emergency," "Hey, I have a fever!" because it's a lot easier to explain a family emergency or being physically sick than "Hey, my brain's not really working today and I don't really want to be on this stupid spinning rock, but here I am!"

There's a long way to go, but mental health awareness is improving. And in this age, it starts now, it starts with us. When I was small, I had never heard about mental health before. We talk about our generation, we talk about how we're the cutting edge of innovation and the cutting edge of tech and the cutting edge of this and that. I see that with mental health too. It wasn't something we used to talk about. Even cultures that never used to acknowledge that it was a problem are starting to. And it's because of unfortunate circumstances, but at least we're starting to. In the United States or in college situations at least, I think we're doing better.

Joanna Hua is a Government major in the College of Arts and Sciences on a pre-medical track, class of 2020.
