It happened this summer.

Everything was going really well-I had been working on my internship and startup. I was happy and healthy, eager to learn and make an impact. 

Then things started escalating. I began to have thoughts that I was the second coming of Christ and that I had the answers to the universe. My startup was going to solve humann suffering and I was going to meet Mark Zuckerberg and Peter Thiel.

It didn't seem that out of the ordinary, but I hadn't been sleeping for almost the whole weekend. Friday, the thoughts of divinity and higher purpose first rushed in, as part of what I call an "epiphany moment". That Friday I didn't sleep and then Sasturday I slept 3 or 4 hours. I was fixated on fleshing out my ideas, spending every possible moment developing theories and stories. Sunday, I didn't sleep either-I was obsessed. And then Monday, it started getting really bad. I was physically unable to go to sleep. I remember my sister being there and I felt like I was going to pass away, not physically but in spirit and in memory. Sleep meant death and I was afraid.

When I woke up a few hours later, my entire grasp on reality was shaken.

It was the most profound thing-I awoke in the shower with no recollection of ever getting in. It felt like I had died and was reborn. I didn't know where I was. I had no memory of me or anything.

I don't know how to describe it...I was kind of observing everything in the past - all of human history happening at once. It's hreally hard to communicate my experience but it was like pieces of my mind were being unlocked at this natural tempo of the universe. I started screaming because I felt like I realized everything, and that everything was a simulation and we were all in one game. It was crazy. 

My dad came in. I remember thinking he was God and I was Jesus. I was tapping him and slapping him, trying to understand what the steps of human perception were. I was trying to find an order to the universe and I was babbling like a baby. He must have been so freaked out but he just tried to lie me down on my bed and get me to sleep. With everything that was happening around me, I felt like my whole life was a story and I was interpreting all the symbols in it.

I went to sleep and after I woke up again, still Monday, my dad came in and gave me a book to write in. I was dumping my thoughts in the book, scribbling cryptic patterns and ideas. Then my parents told me we were going to go on a trip. I initially refused because I felt I needed to stay in my room and build the next simulation. After some time, I complied despite being unaware of the destination. 

During the ride, I started to believe that people were part of the Illuminati. My mind was still giong a mile a minute and I was listing off radical hypothesis after radical hypothesis. Then we pulled up in front of a hospital and my heart sank to the bottom of my stomach. When I saw the hospital, I thought, "My parents think I'm sick. They're afraid of me. But I'm not sick. I have this great idea and they just don't understand."

Even though I was opposed to being hospitalized, Ifigured that I would just go along with it as a sort of martyr. I still felt like I was Jesus and I had a mission.

I stayed in the hospital that whole night with my dad. I wasn't able to sleep because I was afraid of what would happen if I woke up agian. I didn't want to wake up in another strange place. I remember it was so bad...the conditions of the hospital. It felt like a jail cell. There were security guards everywhere, people sleeping out in the hallways.

That night I was still rambling on having all these solutions to the universe. I just wanted to write it all down and get it out into the world. I wanted people to hear it and I wanted my words to be remembered.

I was released from the hospital the next morning. I had been diagnosed as bipolar, with the experience labeled as a psychotic manic episode. But I don't remember anyone ever telling me that in the hospital room. All I remember was feeling like everyone was in a play. Everybody was acting their part in this cosmic orchestra and I figured it all out.

For the next month, I was still in the episode, having grand delusions and nonsensical ideas. I don't remember most of it, but it was very surreal, as if the month had been one long, living dream.

The thing about the manic state is that I never realized I was in it. I had all these thoughts that I was convinced were true, no matter how absurd. I would shake off anything anybody would tell me and I'd do my own thing. 

A lot of the aftermath had to do with the medication. I didn't want to be on medication and I was kind of forced on it and had to stay home from school. A big fear I had was that I was going to lose a part of myself. WHile the manic episode felt like a dream, it felt very real at the same time. All the delusions I had about the Illuminati and interpreting all the signs...it didn't feel like a sickness. It was just who I was.

During the experience, I was experimenting with things. I was observing patterns in the world. That's what I've been doing my whole life with math and science. I felt like I achieved the ultimate sense of that. Having that stripped away from me was having part of my identity stripped and it was scary. The medicine was supposed to repress the manic state and I didn't know how far that would go. I felt numb and I just wanted to get off medication.

I think a big thing with me is just the lack of control I felt over it all. I'm sure a lot of people with mental health problems feel it too. For me, it's a little different than those with depression and things like that. The manic state is alluring. Many of my experiences felt mystical, many of my ideas revolutionary. I loved everybody and possessed this intensity that can't be compared. But when I'm in that state I become oblivious to the people around me and detached from the world that I live in. What if another episode happens? I might not even be aware of it. That feeling of powerlessness that I'm not even in control of my own mind, my own self - it's jarring.

Kevin Ngo is a Computer Science major in the College of Engineering, class of 2021.