One big thing, just something I've always had, is the fact that I've had autism and Asperger's syndrome. Coming to Cornell was a big shock for me. It's like thousands of different people, hundreds of people in a room, and a lot of independence that I wasn't normally used to. It was like ten thousand things happening at once, and for someone who didn't like change, that was a big deal. The first couple of months I was pretty freaked out. I felt a little stressed out, and that it was harder for me to hunker down or focus on one thing. There was so much stuff going on, coming from a high school that was smaller and quieter in comparsion.

And it was sort of like that for the first semester. I wasn't floundering, but things could have been better. I was treading water. During the spring of my freshman year, I ended up joining a club, and that really helped me find an anchor. Like a bunch of friends to have lunch with you to do something cool. They really gave me a tether, if you want to call it that, and helped me find somewhere stable. And through that club and through other clubs, I managed to overcome things that held me back.

Eye contact, as it figures, has always bothered me. For some reason that I can't verbally explain, eye contact has historically given me a hard time. Just looking somebody in the eye when having a conversation, no idea why. Acting as though I'm like paying attention to you, that's part of that. I may be listening to you, but I'm looking in a different direction.

It's weird, being able to have a conversation with a stranger. Being able to walk up to someone you don't know and not feel so much anxiety and worry. Going into Cornell, I felt very anxious and uncertain. But I think being here and treading water and just figuring stuff out as I went ultimately made me better. I wasn't going to be comfortable until I spent some time being uncomfortable. At some point, I said to myself, "This isn't so bad." I ended up coming out better for it.

I'm still not so great at a couple of things, but I'm pretty proud of how far I've come.

Student Disability Services (SDS) has been great to me in general, just working with me and helping me get accommodations that are necessary. People give them a bad rap but I really think you just need patience with them. As with anything, it's not instantaneous, but I felt that given patience, they've really helped me out with a lot of things.

I feel like in my rush to find my anchor, I sort of spread myself too thin. I tried to do a million things. Like Hamilton, there are a million things I haven't done. And I wanted to be Alexander Hamilton. It didn't work out.

I feel a little bit burnt out because I have been pulled in a million different directions. I can handle it now, but it doesn't mean I need to do everything all the time.

So if I could go back in time, I would tell myself don't do it all just because you can. Take the time to do a couple things really well. Find a couple of clubs or organizations or whatever it is you really care about, and then really dedicate yourself to them. That way, you'll have a much greater investment in them versus just saying you're in 10 different clubs. Don't be afraid to try new things within your comfort zone and look a little bit outside of it.

Coming to Cornell especially, people rant and rave about how many different things there are to do here. But, as someone who has historically had trouble with new things, it only seems really nice on paper. Actually doing it, committing to it, and giving it your best is another thing entirely. This may sound cliche but Clubfest was a really good way of just like seeing what was out there and helping me figure out what I wanted to do.

I'd say, message people on Facebook and just talk to them as well. You see someone in the hallway, talk to them. People like to be wanted. It's something I do. Something I discovered along the way at Cornell: people like it when others reach out to them and want to know about them. If you just want to reach out to someone and say "Hi, I'd love to ask you about something!" That really shows that you're interested in this space and people appreciate that. Don't be afraid to reach out to someone - email, Internet, whatever - and just fire away. Most people will get back to you.

Especially having autism, Cornell was a pretty crazy thing. I'm not sure how I would have fared without the support of so many of my friends in clubs and elsewhere. I know it can be hard to find friends and I know it can be hard to make that first step, but you can't stop being uncomfortable unless you take that step. You're never going to get out of that sensation of "I have no friends" until you try. And even if it fails, and I've really tried and failed countless times to try and connect with somebody and just do something cool, you'll find the one person who clicks with you in every way and you'll go to lunch with them every day and you'll be best friends for the rest of your time at Cornell. But you'd never have met that person if you hadn't tried. I know that sounds corny but it works. So, don't be afraid to go out there and try something different.

Shea Belsky is a graduate from CALS in Information Science (May 2018 BS, December 2018 MPS).